[Music]
it was a hand gate
so
[Music]
very good
very good for me
[Music]
okay it's a common
uh mistake in the assignments the
probability of
a or b is not the summation of
individual probabilities
we will talk about this today
very good
[Music]
so
okay this one's much better
he's like
[Music]
[Applause]
allah the lord he was in the
you you were in the meeting room so
please join
using uts account
um we don't want to risk
okay any question good morning everybody
any question before we start
no okay
let me make sure i record this
hello everyone welcome to week 4 of
risk management in engineering um
let's let me just have a look to the
content of our subject
we talked about this terminologies uh we
introduced
a risk management process based on iso
31000 standard
we will get back to the risk management
plan from next week
we talked about systems thinking and
reliability engineering
we start risk assessment process we
introduce a process
for doing risk assessment starting from
this definition
going through the risk identification
qualitative analysis quantitative
analysis of risk and
if the risk is acceptable or not and we
are started to work on risk assessment
we will do risk evaluation and treatment
after finishing
these techniques and we will do
risk-based decision making and
communication at the end of the semester
and for good friday we have some special
topics that you need to go through
by yourself
erica from last week we said
based on iso 31000 standard we have this
process for doing risk management and we
have some boxes
here for this process it
starts from establishing the context
then it goes to the
risk assessment which is the core idea
of risk management then this
treatment and we need to do
communication and monitoring
throughout this process
we need to we categorize the risk
assessments
into categories um deductive
approaches and inductive approaches we
said deductive approaches
are mainly stored from one unwanted
event the zoid event
and or hazard then we try to identify
the root causes
inductive approaches start with the top
even or initiating event then we try to
identify the consequences
and we have some techniques that cover
both of these like
bow toy and bayesian network we will
talk about those kind of things
later in the semester we introduced pha
hazop and fme last week
they are basic methods qualitative
techniques or semi-qualitative technique
for fmea
and they are used in the early stage of
system
life cycle and they are mainly
inducted approaches
today we are going to to introduce fault
tree analysis
as a static method and it's mainly
a deductive method we will talk about
dynamic bayesian networks and dynamic
bayesians
um in in the semester as well
so today our plan is just go through the
fall tree
how we develop a fault tree what's the
qualitative
part of this technique what is the
quantification of this technique
and in the tutorial we will go through
some basic
exercises to first make sure you got the
idea
of the mathematical background of
poultry
then in the case of study we implement a
fall tree
and you can get some experience
what you can do in your assessment risk
paper for risk paper you need to
you need to implement two quantitative
techniques
paul three could be one option
for assessment three risk paper
poultry as i said is a deductive
approach and was developed by bell labs
in united states in 1961 for
u.s air force and they use this
technique at the beginning to assess the
safety of missiles
is a an analytical and deductive method
that drives the cause of
one on the label even or a jose
so now it's mainly used in many
applications including nuclear chemical
plants manufacturing plants
process plants and
it could be used in the detailed design
stage
or in operation of systems
when you have enough data and
information about the
components of your system
and if you remember last week we said
the
one of the main disadvantage of basic
events that they cannot
incorporate multiple failures at the
same time
in their in in their assessment in their
analysis
faultry is a is a strong technique
in incorporating multiple failures
together
for for the risk analysis
before starting
poultry and implement a couple of
examples
first we need to know
the difference between fault and failure
we talked about failure
last week we said every system has a
capacity
there are some challenges in the
environment
and there are some severe events they
try to reduce the capacity of the system
when
challenges are bigger than the capacity
there is a failure
and we talked about the failure modes in
the fmea
now you need to differentiate between
fault and failure
failure we said is when the system
is broken is broken it doesn't
it cannot perform it doesn't function
is one of the elements of the
performance
is removed so there is a fail
bot fault has a broad
broader meaning it means is not
necessary for a component
to be
broken still there is a fault if
it for example doesn't
uh it doesn't uh work at the right time
uh for the operation or
for its functionality so
you can think about those kind of fault
in a
startup procedures in shutdown or
procedures in operation so any fault
could be doing something
which is not uh necessarily be broken
but still they don't provide
the desired for the desired operation at
the right time
or
maybe even you can think about human
error when you
you you operator needs to work with a
component
but component works human is alive
but you know bad timing
wrong time so still there is a fault
but we don't have any failure so we will
talk about this in in the
examples more so you can get some more
idea
about fault and failure and
it was a common mistake in the in the
answers in the solutions of
challenge 2 many students incorporated
both
success and failure or success and fault
in the fall tree vault we only consider
vaults and if you are going to develop
another tree
for successes you can we have success
trees and we have fall trees but we are
not going
to mix up faults with successes
in their risk analysis
so what is for 343 is a tree like this
we have some box we have some logic
gates and we have some seekers like this
from the top even we we break down
through the boolean logics to the lower
levels
and we will have some basic events at
the end of this
all at the lower end of these three
we will we will go through the the
details of
each of these elements of poultry but
before going through that
is we need some preparation
before going to the fall tree mainly
we may use fmea study before
or a reliability block diagram that has
been developed previously
at the earliest stage of the system life
cycle
so look at this um all of this
information
for coming from fmea or the reliability
the blockchain runtime can help us to
develop a
fault tree like this
and we need to still because it still is
a risk assessment technique we need to
first a new system definition we need to
identify
our boundary what is our focus
what is our risk aspect then we start
doing fault tree and reliability will
block the algorithm and fmea can help us
to start doing faltering
when you develop the fall tree like this
you can use it for two purposes
qualitative purpose and quantitative
qualitative parts when you have the
trill
using the boolean gates you can start to
simplify these three based on the
boolean presentation
so it's a qualitative part it helps you
to understand
when the top even happen or
how the basic events are contributing to
the failure of the top either
using boolean algebra you do a
qualitative
analysis using your fault tree
another aspect of fall tree is a
quantitative aspect or quantitative
evaluation
it means you you
you break down the top event to the
lower
event and basic events if you have the
failure probability for the basic events
from the down
or bottom of this tray you can start
you can start probability calculation
for each layer
layer and go up so at the end you have
the probability of the top either
so this is the quantitative part of
poultry you can
estimate the probability for the top
either
and you know for risk estimation we need
the probability
and severity so fault tree is a
quantitative technique
can help us to estimate the probability
for risk estimation each fall tree
has some symbols like these boxes
these gates and some circles like this
so we need to know the meaning of each
symbol
before starting fault tree development
we mainly use these circles for basic
events so
it could be the failure probability for
each
hardware or software component and
then you don't you don't want to break
down
further so it could it could be the
failure probability
of one device one component
one hardware or one software in your
system
or mainly mainly we use diamond
for on development even it means
it refers to those events that we don't
have
enough information about them for
example we don't have the failure
probability
at the moment or we are going it
represents a subsystem
and we are not going to break it down
further
in our fall tree for example one example
could be
in for example in our cases that if you
remember
we had an open top tank it had some
components
but for example uh we didn't incorporate
the ac
power in our in our system boundary we
didn't consider the boiler
to the or to the the boundary of our
system
so if you are going to develop fault
tree and you are going to consider
some of those things uh relevant to your
fault
feeding to your fall tree you can use on
development even as a diamond
in your fall tree or external even
i saw in the challenge two solutions
many students
use some
boxes or circles to connect different
soft trees together so if you are going
to
connect those soft trees together you
need to use these
triangles uh here when the
fall tree gets very large and you need
to break it down
you can use these triangles to connect
them together
if you are going to represent the
external event
coming to your fall tree like for
example
some of you will do nautic for your risk
paper
external even like a bushfire like a
flood
like an earthquake or for example
uh hit radiation from external sources
could be represented by this symbol as
an external event in your
country and we have some intermediate
event we put them in there
even even the top event start with
a box intermediate event represent by
box
but basic events are represented by
circle external events like this and
if you have to break down the faulty
into soft trees you may use them
triangles like this we will do some
examples and in the tutorial you will
have more
chance to try these symbols in your form
the second element of fall trees are
logic games
gate and gate and the rest of things
mainly
we use or gate and and gate
in the fall tree development
in engineering content in injury context
we mainly use these two maybe there are
some situations
we use the exclusive ore as well and
some of the other gates but they are not
very popular
in engineering systems but still they
are available
if you have any situations to use of
to make use of them you can and each
gate has a probability presentation
we know or gate represent their union
operation between two
sets in their programmity terrorist
union union operation means
any of the any any member of these two
sets
are going to be incorporated in the
result so union operations
represent these two and there is an
intersection between
two sets
if if two sets can happen at the same
time
union representation means or and it's
represented by a venn diagram like this
and this is the meaning c which is the
union of
a and a or b is represented by this
in many engineering references they use
plus to represent or for union
between two sets but absolutely it
doesn't mean
summation it's just a representation
for for the union operation
and you should be careful about it an
intersection
and gate we we know when we have and
gate
you need to have all inputs
to have an output so intersection of two
sets like a and b
is the meaning or probability
representation of and gates and you can
see
they represent using and and in some
engineering references they use dot
for representing intersection and it
doesn't mean
multiplying okay you need to be careful
and the rest of boolean or logic gates
you can see even exclusive or could be
represented by and and
or operations
so any other things any audio logic
gates
has a meaning based on and and or
presentation if you need to refresh your
mind about the probability theory
uh the risk analysis textbook has an
appendix and you can you can go through
the details of this to just refresh your
mind
many students have done programmed
eternity in the bachelor degree
if you forgot some of some of these
knowledge you need to refresh your mind
and the appendix in the textbook is very
good and it's only a summary so it's not
very
time consuming to go through four games
so we know all four gate logic
represents the union
of events and one at least one input
is required for the output of or for
example
in default tree because we are working
with faults and failures
you when you have a or gate one
failure as an input is enough
for a failure output for the or gate
at least one
and it represent by union operator
between two
events like this and as i said in many
engineering systems they represent by
plus but
is not addition
it's very common and i saw in the
solution of
challenge 2 the students
had logic gates with one input
so it's not meaningful when you have a
logic gate
at least you should have two inputs
to your logic gate and it's very common
to see
in the assessment three risk papers some
portuguese
with one input to a logic gate so it's
meaningful
c equals to a so it's not a logic gate
so you need to think about it maybe it's
only one event and it doesn't need to be
breaking down so you need to be careful
of those kind of situations
and gate as i said is represent the
intersection
based on the program tutorial if we're
gonna have
output a fault or failure as output of
and gate all input should
show failure or they should be in the
failure
state and we represent by intersection
operator and in some references they use
that and other gates as i
mentioned they can be presented by
or and and gates so
for example if you have a two out of
three logic gate
it it has a meaning based on or an
you need to have two failures
among three events a b
c so you can two out of three
could be represented by these three you
have
all at the beginning then you need three
and
in the lower layer then you have the
input look at this if
for example you have a a failure
b failure c success so a
and b here both failure you have the
failure here
so because you have all gate the failure
goes out
the output is free
or i said b failure
c success so this and gate doesn't work
the same here
a and c because c is in success this and
doesn't work
so this representation make sure you
have two
out of three for your
out and there is exclusive or can be
presented
by or and and gates like this you can
give a and b some failure and successive
states and see what's there
output of exclusive or and make
then you can have better understanding
how the old
exclusive or gate works
so now we know what are the symbols
what are the logic gates and
what are the meaning of logic gates
now we can do some all three analysis
so first we set the top event
we know we know our system we know our
boundary
we select one event
as our top event for the fall
for example in the cases study we said
vapor is our main
huzzah so the top event could be
hazard sorry the could the top event
is vapor in the cases study which is the
main hustle
all other kind of things for example we
will have some examples so
don't worry did we define
we know the top even then as an engineer
we change what's the
intermediate event
after having top event we think about it
what's what could what could
what could be events leading to this top
event
what are the uh
immediate causes to this top event this
is the second layer of the
fault tree then
when you identify the
immediate causes to the top even you
think about the logic game
do you need and do you need or
to put to connect the the causes
to the top event logically what you need
to see the failure for the problem then
you select your
game i need a and gate here or i need a
or gate here or exclusive
for the gate but mainly and and
then you think about the second layer we
have done
the root causes for the top even now for
the
second layer i think for each event
what i need
immediate causes to each event
in the sec in the second layer then i
think about the gains again
then i connect the root causes to the
open
even with a logic gate and you can see
there is an iterative process we search
for the causes
then we define the logic gate then we go
up
and connect the lower layer to the top
to the upper layer
so we break down until we realize
that all events are basic or
based on the resources and time that's
enough
or for example
for our objective for our purpose that's
enough to
stop here and for example we identified
the basic events and we cannot
break breaking down them further so
that we stop them so we complete the
development of
faultry when you develop the fall tree
then you can do qualitative
evaluation you have the top event
you have the lower layers until the
basic events using
boolean algebra and representation of
gates you try to
identify the minimum cut sets
minimum cuts are minimum requirement for
the failure of the top event based on
the brilliant presentation
then you do quantitative evaluation you
have the probability
for the basic events you start to do
calcul calculation of the probability
for the upper layers until
you calculate the probability for the
top
then you all three
by looking at default tree the
probabilities
the minimum cut sets you may purpose
some measures to reduce the occurrence
of the top even
we know for risk reduction we can reduce
the probability or we can reduce the
exposure or we can reduce
disability so in fall tree because we
are working with
likelihood or probability faulty can
help us to
identify some measures to reduce the
probability of the topic
look at this example we have a cooling
system
and it's a safety barrier in a system
and it has two branches to uh
to deliver water for our safety value
it can go through probe a and valve a
or it could go through probe b and bad b
you're gonna develop a fault tree and
the top
event is not delivering water
and we ignore the point failures and
human errors
we only look at these components
from a valve a point b
and value so we start with
with the top event we put the top event
in their box
so not
delivering what then we think about
the immediate cause of not delivering
water
we know we have two branches and they
are important
so if we are not receiving any water
it could be due to branch the top branch
failure
and lower branch failure so we have
trains train a phase train b
fails as in immediate causes to the top
and you can see we put the intermediate
events in the box as well
then we think about the logic gate
if we are not receiving water boost both
trains should fail so we need to
the failure of both branch so we need
the energy
so we put the and gate there then
we have to intermediate events train a
fails
train b phase so if you get back to the
to the case
for the train a we have home a and very
for lower they have home b valve b
so you think about in immediate failure
of train
a fails so definitely it could be due to
home failure or valve failure the same
for
train b or sorry before going to that we
can
we can finalize the gate for this tray
they are in they are connected in series
pump a goes to pop to the valve edge
so how train a
fans eval fans or pawn fails is enough
one failure is enough so you t you is an
organ the same for trainee
we have poppy and vagi and for the
failure of this
what input is enough
so we put because they are the basic
components
pump valve we put them in the circle
and is all all gates for this line
and murder this is the fault tree for
these cases
look at this we have a battery we have a
switch and we have a motor
so if motor doesn't
run you are going to develop a fault
tree
you may ignore the human error and the
wires
fail motor motor m
doesn't work so if if motor m doesn't
run
what's the what's what's the in
immediate causes
it could be true the failure of motor
itself or it for it doesn't receive
power so we have the top event
no output from m so it could be
to water failure in itself or
no oven or dc
for our motor company because
look at this diamond we are not going to
break down
the motor to the lower components
we have the failure probability for this
device
what we don't care about them the
smaller components
in m so we put it in a diamond like this
but no dc still we can think about
if you are not receiving any power it
could be to switch failure
or battery failure and look at this
one of them defender one final zero so
we put an or gate between switch and
battery
to represent no power to the
upper layer so we developed a fault tree
for this
question
it's easy i know and now you can see
what what is the relationship between
reliability block diagram and fault tree
in the reliability the black diagram
rbd is developed for the reliability of
the system
poultry could be developed
for the failure of the system and no
you know we we may have a series or
parallel network in
rbd so if you have a series network
the corresponding fault tree for this
series network is represented by
or gate it was a
common mistake in challenge two
solutions
in misunderstanding the logic gates
if your system is in series
one failure is enough so it's
represented by
or gate abc
one failure is enough for the failing
off
system or for the reliability you need
the reliability of
all systems the survival
but for the failure one is enough so you
you put a organ
in parallel rbd
we know if
we're gonna represent the failure of a
parallel
network all all components all
individual components should fail so
the default theory corresponding to a
polar
configuration is represented by and gate
you need all of them to
fame for the failure of a
horrible system
so i know
many students mix up the reliability
with and but this is for the success
or the survival of the system poultry
is for the failure system that's the
reason
you shouldn't use and for series or
all four patterns through the exercises
you will get more experience about this
another example
the figure shows an electric electric
circuit for providing emergency life
during blackout in the circuit the relay
is held open as long as ac power
is available if ac
power is not available the relay closes
and either of the four batteries can
supply
light up we are going to develop a fall
tree
no light when needed
so you can share your ideas with me
the top event is no light when needed
what's the immediate cause of this event
open your microphone
no power
no power is one cause what's another one
light burn very good yes you are sitting
in a room
if you are going to lose the light
you may lose your power or
your light shows a failure
so what's the relationship between these
two
either one of them failed the light
won't come out so it would be a
um intersection like uh
okay one of them is enough for the
failure
you may lose the power or you may lose
the light
one of them is enough yeah so you need
or gate very good one of them is enough
so you may lose the light or you may
lose the power or you may lose both
but but one of them the failure one
failure is enough
so you put an old gate between
light power and the top event you have
an organ
what about the power we know the light
is light failure
it could be a basic event what about no
power
a little battery one but e2 batteries
for your battery
four but the battery one and two in
series and battery three and four in
series and
the combination in peril okay
you went very deep okay
i'm thinking about no power i have an ac
and i have a dc
if i don't have any power
that means yeah both of them file the
there's no um
the ic is failed and the batteries fail
very good
so if i don't have any power it means i
i lose ac and i lose dc
very good so i don't have the ac and
i don't have the dc both
are gone so in that case i don't have
half
so for ac you may stop there because ac
comes from the
usb we get the from the network
what about the dc the dc could be
breaking down further because you have
batteries and relay
so look at this
no dc when you don't have dc
it it could be due to relay
failure or not receiving
power from batteries relay not working
or no power from the batteries so one of
them is enough
you have an organ
not receiving power from batteries it
means they are
in parallel both
branch the top branch and the lower
branch boost
fail if they're gonna boost fail you
need a
and gate between the top branch and the
lower branch
you are not receiving any power from
batteries
you have you have two branches in
parallel
if you are not receiving it means both
branches
fail both branch failed represent by and
and they are connected in series the
third one and the lower one
v1 is in series with b2 so only one
failure is enough
is represented by all between b1 and b2
and the same for b3 and b41
or gate is enough so this is the
presentation of
this sub tree
one one failure represented by or
and we are not receiving any power from
batteries
and there
you may lose the battery or you may lose
the relay
so you have it all and the rest will
talk
any questions
and for your cases study in assessment
three you can do the same
you put the main hazard on the top
it could your topic is a human error is
it not egg it's domino effect or
something like
that then you try to break it down to
the lower layer and you use the logic
gates
in your false
um now you have the fault tree
we can do we
determine the minimum cut sets or cuts
we start from the top even we know the
top event
is connected to the intermediate events
using logic gains
so using boolean presentation of logic
gates you can simplify
top event based on the basic event
it is called top down or bottom up
successive substitution
or you can use truth table we introduce
these two techniques
but there are more techniques you can do
some self-study
like mod color simulation can be used
for
a minimum cut sets determination
so i talked about the successive
substitution we
start from the top event based on the
boolean presentation of the
gates and the lower levels we simplify
the top event based on the basic events
and
we mainly use the boolean algebra
for doing this
all of these are available in the
textbook in the appendix
please review if you forgot about some
of these
but they are very helpful to simplify
the top
event based on their basic events
you can see the the application of
some of these laws in their examples
look at this
know how to we develop this one for the
motor example so we have the top
event no output from m
then another two lines
if you are going to start from the top
even
top event as your his teeth
i'll try to write down here because
we have an or gate here so we have a or
operator m and assume this one is k
m or k
m is simple let me stop here but k
equals we have a sw
or b w
or e
then in the first equation
you can simplify t based on you have the
m or and
case is this one is w
for b
you can remove that parenthesis is m or
sw or b
so it means t
equals to this one and we are not
we cannot simplify this presentation the
boolean presentation
further so they are representing
the minimum minimal cut sets
for the t look at this it means
m failure can t
fade look at this because it's failure
and you have an
or gate so if m fails
t phase or
sw if if sw phase
it goes through this or gate
it goes through this or gate here
then it goes up and t is fail
or b failure b phase
it goes here and t phase
so any of these is enough for the
failure of the
top event and they are called minimum
cuts
and look at this presentation
even using this you can simplify your
fault tree
m or s w or b it means you remove one
layer
here from there you from there fall tree
so you can see this fall tree
has another corresponding here
and they create the same result
and the proof is here because
based on the minimum cut sets one of
these
is enough for the output
failure so you can see how
these boolean algebra
can help us to simplify fall trees as
well
and they have a meaning
minimum requirement for the failure of
the topic
and even you can see this one
is corresponding to this one for this
case study with
this simple case study we developed a
reliability block
diagram i think unique two
so even this fall three is corresponding
to this one they are in series
one failure is enough so one or gate is
enough here
to represent the failure of the top
more example t we have a and
a b c and d are here so we start with t
t equals a and b
and this sub branch here
c or d c or d
they are the engineering presentation of
or
and and gates engineering presentation
then you distribute based on the boolean
law you can distribute
these two into the apprentices
then you have a b and c
or a and b and d
and you can see they are there you
cannot simplify further
they are the minimum cuts look at this
diagram
it says for g failure
you need one of them or both if if you
concentrate on the first one
you have a and between a and b and c
look at this a failure
b failure c phase
so a failure comes here b failure comes
to the and gate
and f because is the or gate definitely
you have failure for this branch
so you have three failures t phase
and the same for a and b and d
so don't think about c here
the same if d is failed through this
or gate you have you have a failure then
the top of it
shows because a and b are in failure
and more examples look at this the top
event
case a you have an or gate
so the minimum cut set is this sub
tree or this subtree
you have the or here what is the
presentation of this because
all gates are and the presentation of
this branch
is a and b and c and d
this branch this branch has an and gate
as well
so this is e and f
so these are the minimum cut sets for
case a
look at case b you have an or gate here
you have an or gate here or gate but you
have some
add gates in the lower layers too
so you start from the top one
for this one you have a e and f
so for this one you have a g
b comma edge
for this one you have a c and d
c and d and here you have an orchid you
have a
one of them is enough so you have an a
or b comes here so a or b
then you have a c d for this branch
could be a
one minimum cut set
e and f from this branch here
then g or h from this branch so
g or h from this branch so you can see
if for example only one failure
if a is in fail and a state
and you don't care about the rest of
events this failure can fail the system
we can see how strongly
f contributes to the failure of the
system
and the same here look at these too many
and gates
so the minimum cut set off the top even
is there
is only one statement a and b and c
and d and e and f and g and h
now we can see how it's unlikely to have
a failure for this system
it's very unlikely you need all
input failure
so you can see it represents a
high reliable or safe system
based on the minimum cut sets you you
need
you have too many ads and too many
factors
should show failure for the failure of
this
system so what i expect to see
if i have the probability of the basic
event the probability for the top event
here
should be very very low
and look at this i have two too many
ores here
a enough b is enough for the failure
c is enough for the failure d is enough
for the failure
so you have too many minimal concepts
any single failure in the basic
components can fail the system
so it doesn't represent a very
safe safe design or safe system
and more examples we will go through
this one the tutorial so i leave it here
for now
we have done their qualitative
evaluation
minimal cuts now we can do quantity
uh quantitative evaluation
based on the basic of probability we
know
the probability of a and b
equals to if you multiply the individual
probabilities
based on the product rule you can prove
you can calculate the probability
for the and gate
for the or gate is a bit
higher because if you
if you have two events
assume this is a
and this is b
if you multi if this is a or b
if you do the summation based on the
individual probabilities
it's okay but you are still including
the probability of
intersection twice so
the probability of union should be
one intersection should be removed this
is the probability theory
you can just if you need more details
please go through the appendix to
refresh your what they are
and for the exclusive for the exclusive
or
we remove two times of the intersection
for the exclusive
and if they are mutually exclusive it
means they don't have any
intersection mutually exclusive events
are like this
they don't have any intersection so the
the probability
of the exclusive or equals to
probability
the summation of individual problems
so we use this probability
theory for quantification of the
fall trees and it's very common to have
more than two events coming to the logic
gates
so for the for the and gate you can
extend the product rule easily
the probability of an event
is there and the multiplication of
individual probabilities
for the or gate you can use this
equation 1 minus
1 minus probability multiplication of
individuals even for two events
is the same as this one
for two events this equation represents
create the same result as this one if
you simplify
you can see they are honest so what is
good to
to know about the extension then if you
have two events
simply you can use only two of two
events in the
extension
having knew this look at this we we have
done this for three before
now we can do calculation the
probability of the top event you have a
or gate
is the probability of all inputs coming
to this or gate
so you do summation for individuals
for three events the probability is the
summation of
individual minus the contribution of
each two plus the contribution of three
or you can use this extension that i
explained in the previous
slide one minus multiply
one minus probabilities for three
events and if you put the numbers the
property of the
m is only ten percent sw
twenty percent be thirty percent
you put the numbers in the equation the
probability of the top event
is around fifty percent
and you can see uh they they create the
same result if you go through this
equation or through the extension
another example for probability
calculation
first you can do the calculation for
subtree here
c or d c or d is the summation of
individual minus the
product so 10 percent 20 percent you put
it in the equation
the probability of x is
28 percent you have the x
you have the probability of b you have
the probability of a
then you have an angle you multiply
these three individual
probabilities and only this number
so in the in the tutorial we will
play around this quantification a bit
more
for some exercises and for the cases
another way of this doing quantification
is going through the truth tables is
different from
booleans but it creates the same reason
if you have for example four events
in the truth table you produce
all combination of success and failures
for the basic events and
you quantify each combination
and then you calculate the probability
for the topic look at this
abc events
two to the power of four states
or combinations are possible
look at the first one all events are in
success
a success b success c success d
success how we calculate this
we have the failure if you do minus
90 percent for the success of a
percent for the success of b ninety
percent for the success of c
eighty percent for the success of d if
you multiply these numbers together
you have this probability for this
combination
another combination a success miss
success c
success d failure this is the second
combination
third combination a success b success
c failure d success
combination 3 combination 4
b failure the rest are success
you do you develop all combinations
based on the success and failure of
basic events
look at the last one a failure b
failure c failure d fader this is the
last combination
you multiply all numbers you do this
calculation
you do calculation for there yeah
you do calculation for all combinations
and you decide
how each car each combination can
produce the success of failure
for the entire system you have an and
gate here so you need
all inputs failure
a failure b failure and this stop branch
failure this operation failure can be
due to
c failure or d failure or both failure
look at this you have this kind
this combination here a failure defender
c success d phase a failure b
failure c failure d success
or c and d both are failed so
before only these three combinations can
lead to the failure of that
only three combination can set
consistent phase then
if you do summation for these three
numbers three digits
you have the probability for the the
failure of the top even
and you can see is exactly the same as
successive substitution method we we
have done
it here is 0.0028
through the truth table it creates the
same
result 0.0028
rating i have a trigger here in there
digit but it creates the same
result as of the successive substitution
of it and you can see how true stable
can gets very large when you include
only one event so
usually is not possible to develop the
truth tables manually
there are some softwares for doing
this we mainly use the successive
substitution method and you can see how
both techniques target the same
area from different perspective this is
the boolean
presentation of this all three we went
through that
minimum cut sets a and b and c
this area a and b and d this area
but the true stable approach
the area from another perspective you
can see
a b c d bar is here
a b c d is here
a b c body
is here and you can see the all mutually
exclusive cut sets
for these
so you can see is not very
easy if your fault trip is
complex to do it manually there are some
softwares
but for the for the sake of this subject
you can draw fall trees using powerpoint
using war or another software
roti will explain in the tutorial
and the calculations you need to do by
yourself
learn the calculation for and gate then
the calculation for or gate
and if it's enough for the sake of this
subject
in your assessment three risk paper you
do
calculations manually you make include
some of the calculation in the paper but
you don't have to
include all calculations
and you saw in the minimal concept it's
very important
to incorporate as much as you can and
get
in there all three i don't mean
you change the fault tree for a current
system
i mean if you are in a design engineer
and you are thinking about the develo
the development of a new system
you should think about how the the
failure of the system
is based on and gates not all gates
and gates between components not or
gates
as you saw or gate are very failure pro
and can many failures and can cause many
huzzahs
to present in their systems
okay today we talked about poultry
he said we said it's a deductive
approach
is a quality quantitative technique
it represents a tree uh
the root causes contributing to the
occurrence of the top event you do
qualitative evaluation you determine the
minimal concepts
they represent the minimum requirement
for the failure of the top event
and you you can do quantitative
evaluation
it means using using probability
thoroughly
we can calculate the probability of the
top event
based on the probability of the basic
event
any questions um yeah dr molson how do
we
for the um quantitative
uh part of it how do we actually give
like for example for that case of study
we did with the mixing of the
uh heating how do you quantify something
like that whether you get the numbers
like
um the caches say normally doesn't have
figures so
where do we get the figures from very
good very good question
i received this question many times
during the semester
and probably close to the assessment
tree
due date for many components
general components electrically called
mechanical chemical
and electronics circuits
and many other things over the years
many researchers
have collected the data and they
produce a reference or
failure probabilities or textbook risk
and an asset
reliability engineering textbook
at the end has an appendix it provides
the general failure probabilities for
many components
and i think to some extent is is enough
for your cases studies but
for some components that they are not
available in the textbook
you can you can use any research paper
any handbooks any textbook any reference
book
to obtain those kind of programs even in
some
very limited situations
those numbers are not available but you
are engineers
and you have access to the engineers you
can do some estimation
for example many students ask for the
human error
probability we will release throughout
the semester some research papers
and if you can see the failure human
error probability in many references
is 10 percent or 20 percent
sorry one person or two pence we will
research
we will release the research papers so
for example
that research paper could be one source
for referencing
human probability human error
probability
your cases
more questions
sorry just one more with the um
would you be able to elaborate on casual
chain and others
just if everyone else is finished for
the assignment
what do you like what do you like to see
there
okay for casual causal chain for the
accident
i think last week i said chapter six of
engineering um risk management
engineering
management textbook chapter six has a
figure
and it represents how to develop the
causal chain
for for for one accident it says
identify the event identify the
connections and through the diagram
over the time you can determine
what events and what conditions are
contributing together
to create the exit so it has a figure
just look at the figure it's very easy
so in your
in in your case study you start with
some events
that they are mentioned in the report
something happens some failures
one extreme weather conditions something
like that one human error
they they connect together over the time
and lead to the accident
so you draw a causal chain like like the
textbook figure for your cases
thank you thanks for the question
any other questions
okay word limit for assessment one is
explained please stick to the word leave
it
okay and i don't see any
questions me the chat box i have one
message from
i will reply to your email okay
so have a break uh we will i'll see you
in the tutorial
wow
[Music]
so
uh
[Music]
this
um
uh
[Music]
so hello everyone
is high
should you wait for some other students
made to join or
we'll start okay
i think we have total 28 right now
[Music]
uh
okay let's start
so this tutorial
is all about the fault three analysis
and
we need to estimate the minimal cost
concepts for different
systems so let's start with the case
study one
and of this case study you have already
gone through this
this is a part of the case main case
study which you have got
in the last three classes
so basically here we have been given
uh to excuse me uh sorry about that uh
did you share the screen yeah i said
i can't say that there's no one you
can't see
yeah no one can see it yeah thank you
sorry about that
so we need to start with this case study
one okay
and then we have another case study also
case study two and then we go further
some problems here
so for the case study one
so we have been asked to to estimate the
probability of the top event
of this system
which i'll show you here
yeah we have been given with a fault
tree
drawn over here this one and then
the values of the probability of each
component have been also given
so these are the different components
okay like from the
magnet valve control automatic run
control
signal pc signal these are different
components
we have we have been given with the
values of all these components
so we have to use these values and need
to estimate
the probability for the save control
which is your top event
okay so
so here are the values
[Music]
can you guys solve this problem
here we have given the values of of the
probability of different
components so we have total 12
components
and here is the faulty diagram
so you have to use these and to estimate
the probability for the top event which
is offset control
[Music]
so you can download the mouse and send
the link
[Music]
so
sorry for interrupting um early slee
survey feedback survey is open but i'm
not receiving any response only three
students may be submitted
if you can please do the early
sfs we will make sure that your comments
are incorporated for the rest of the
semester
thanks very much in advance
[Music]
let me show you
calculate this
okay here is our
ft diagram so we have feed control at
the top event
and we have
manual control and automatic wall
controls our
intermediate events and we have basic
events like
manual lab emanator actuator
actual and then we have
the pc pc signal
right so we have several other
components
[Music]
so at the top you will see
there is a gate and that's actually our
air gate
and has connected to feed control
with two main valves the manual and
automatic valves
and after that the mammal valve is
connected to the manual valve
i mean manual control is connected to
the manual bar and the human arrow
using the or gate
so it can be distinguished between these
two
the outlook is totally different but
here we have two inputs
for all these cases but
if you see the automatic bulk control we
have three inputs
one is actual signal then actuator and
automatic valve
and so we have to start processing from
the top sorry from the bottom
towards the top uh as we already have
the values here over here
so we need to use these values and
follow the process of series and
parallel
systems to estimate our probability for
the top event which is upgrade control
so here you can see how we have
calculated so basically we have lots of
basic events pt pc
py
so these are all basic events these are
basic because we do not have anything to
explore more
so that's the end of the story and the
intermediate events are always connected
to the basic events
which will launch with some top events
right
so yeah
so you simply need to use these values
and follow the process that has been
given here
the final properties how generally
calculate
so for
okay for the ambal control we have two
events
and we are using uh or gate here so we
simply need to add
to estimate the impulse control here but
in terms of
uh yeah in terms of three input so what
we need to do so we have
suppose we can consider a b and c uh a
is actual signal b is actuator
and a volume is c right
and then we simply use the formula a
a b plus b c plus c a minus a b
minus b c into abc
okay so this is for the
audit processing and we have already for
the and get so we need to simply
multiply
finally we will be reached at a point
of estimating the heat control
probability and our final value will be
[Laughter]
[Music]
control
okay so let's come to the
[Music]
case study two
okay study too as i already explained
like
we know we need to know regarding some
intermediate functions the basic
functions
and also the buffering functions
and how they are connecting to each
other with
different case the android and audience
we have so
here we have been given with a failure
probability of objects
of different objects so if this is the
system which i've already discussed
we will see this is just a part of that
and
here we have been given with different
objects and the symbols
and the fair value probability of all
these objects
so simply we need to estimate the
probability
of the top event in this case
the top event is the waveform need to
form
and we need to estimate the probability
for the vapor
uh using all these failure probability
values
so i recommend to try it by yourself
first
uh it's one question please so basically
in this
case study we have to make sure that we
are we can calculate the probability
of failure okay and we have to
summarize or shortcut or make it shorter
the
three right the three and uh and the
process
right uh it's up to you but basically
uh the objects that have been given here
also be connected
uh you cannot remove any of any of the
object
in the in your fault tree so you have to
add all these
objects which have been given in this
task okay
and then make your folder and then
estimate the
failure probability for the top end
event
using all these values that have been
given here
very good very good i think basically
the the hard part of this one
is not to make any mistake because
if you draw the tree with one mistake it
will blow the whole
probability failure
which is uh this is the hardest part
sounds to me but more or less uh drawing
the tree and
calculating the failure verbality based
on the formula that we have seen in the
lecture
i believe it will be fine actually it
won't be that difficult
especially more regarding the system
very well
so exactly which which object is
connected to which
uh another object and how this starts
how the process will
be to be very clear about the system
first then we can go for the
analysis actually but here we are doing
on
online systems uh we simply reading
something and doing this
so it may not be perfectly right at our
point
but those who are experts in this field
they may basically
produce the exact poultry for a
particular system
i see your point do i need to represent
the system on the tree or the table
or an egg on what i call it the
mathematical exhibition
so do you think one of them will be
enough or have to do the two together in
order to solve as
a kind of this question yes
one is okay if you can solve
see you simply need to solve uh your
problem is you have to estimate the
probability for the vapor
that needs to form at the top and right
you have all these parameters or the
objects that has been given
and you you can see the system in this
figure how they are connected to each
other
and just think and make a plan
so we know that we even don't know
that's exactly correct or not but
we have to make like a proposal kind of
thing so
that if if
we need to suppose you need to estimate
the vapor so
how the vapor flow is connected to the
tank or something like that
so the way you will make
so it will be easy to understand the
system but
that's not maybe the exact
[Music]
no
foreign
so here you can see the solution there
now
so these are the objects
and we have made some symbols for each
objects
because these are so long and we need to
sort it out and make a simple
word specifically for the object and
then
have to find the probability for each
object
regarding the integrated function the
basic functions at all
so we have been provided with the
probability of all the objects
so there are the objects
and we need to draw the fault diagram
here
the tree so here you can see the
solution how it looks
okay so uh the top event is our
way for me to form and that's connected
to
two intermediate uh events that's thus
high temperature
protection system and the ventilator
system
and that's connected through an end
update okay
uh so if you think about the
international system so ventilation
system
ventilator
tube so any one out of four
is same the whole system will fill the
metallurgical system
so that's all connected to
for the ventilating system or using
orbit
so we have different inputs so we have
three inputs
one includes two inputs we have in this
system
so as long as we know these are
any one out of these four tails the
whole ventilation system will fail but
uh so these are basically the basic
events so we do not have anything more
to develop
so we'll stop it here for the ventilator
system
but as long as we have the high
temperature protection system
we have many things we have the
automatic
temperature control system and also the
manual temperature control system
so these two are connected in parallel
automatically if anyone uh
fails
then it doesn't matter if one is working
so the fire temperature protection
system will work
so what need to do both automatically uh
automatic and
both should be fair in this case so that
the high temperature protection system
will fail
so okay if you see the automatic one we
have
the
automatic valve that is connected to the
automatic temperature control system and
we have the temperature control system
that's also connected so these are
actually connected to the intermediate
event of the automatic temperature
control system
uh using our or gate
again the temperature control system is
considered as a uh as an intermediate
event and then
that's connected to the laboratory and
the sensor
so that's that we can stop there and
similarly we can proceed with the
manual temperature control system
okay so all the values that have been
given
so these are the values the payload
probability values for different objects
and we know the call to your
system already so we simply need to put
the values using the parallel and
series formulas
[Music]
of 0.0015
that's the probability of vapor
yeah that's all about it
okay so i'll show you how to draw
the fall diagram
[Music]
here
study one
[Music]
so
lowercase
okay so here you can see
the faulty below shows the safety
analysis of fading control
system so
feeding control system is our top event
okay so for that
[Music]
okay system transferring a program from
a proper neighbor
evaporator to a stopping column to
maintain a specified
pressure inside the scrubbing column the
feed pipeline is equipped with an
automatic valve operated by an iq
applicator
so we have the feeding control system
at the top event
[Music]
simply use these tools on the left side
and just drag it down
towards your screen and then connect
to the other symbols whatever you need
so basically we are doing this for the
complete uh fluid control system
so here it will be fit
here control which is our top event and
that is connected to
two main events the two intermediate
events
and these are these are basically the
automatic one
and the manual control
[Music]
okay so the top one which was connected
to the fluid control is our
this is so for n gap you can put
a simply dot
and then after that we see the manual
one that is connected to
two basic events so these basic events
are basically the manual
uh so this is our manual
control system
[Music]
okay so we have the basic events we have
manual valve
and we have here
this is happening manually
so after that we do not have anything to
order
so these are that's why these are the
basic events and we
will stop here for this and for the
automatic one we have the three main
inputs
and the premium inputs are basically i
can see in the question
we have given with
we have been given with the actuator
okay
uh and then we have given with a value
already
automatic one which has been once again
and if we have this so we we should have
the signal as well the
[Music]
this one is control system here called
control system
[Music]
so if so these are actually connected
all
three inputs using a or gate
so if because these are all connected in
series so if
one else all will be held automatically
so it's all about starting of the
signal if signal fence all will fail
and then as we know the actual signal is
is actually
an intermediate event then that also
gets to be divided into
signals to signals
so here we have the
operation control signal
here we have the
[Music]
failure
long as pc signal is an intermediate
event so we have something more to
develop from here
uh and that for that we have two more
basic events
for the pc signal that is our pressure
transmitter
[Music]
so this is these two are also connected
to the pc signal
using or gate
so this is how now we make a fault tree
for the whole system
now you need to put your values for the
pt
pc and then use the series formulas to
estimate from the pc signal
and again use the pc signal value and py
values
in the series formula to estimate the
values for the probability value for the
actual signal
and then use the actual signal value
actuator value availability
and then estimate for the
eval control system and then similarly
you estimate for the
um control system and then at the end
you will be
generating your value for the affiliate
control system
with your exact probability value
using the the parallel formula
so we can use this tool for drawing
portrait or simply we can use some other
tools like
the word or powerpoint which will be
easy for you to draw
but this the the main
difference between these two with the
word or pipeline
is basically when you will draw here and
you will make your image
so you will be achieving a good
resolution image here
but in case of word or powerpoint we
will
see poor resolution like this so it's
better to do with this
okay okay let's go to the
question number one here's the exercise
here's the question number one so
in question one uh you have a system
you and that's called the rbd diagram
the reliability diagram
diagram which has been given with this
question
your top event is actually that has been
given
and no comment at point x
okay so we have to make it fall tree for
this
this is the easy one i think you can do
simply try it out and then i'll discuss
[Music]
uh
oh
for this
[Music]
anyone can know this
i stayed do you want to
[Music]
um
develop the fault tree
uh so if no current point here
so you can see the rpd diagram if no
current at the point here
then either statement unit 7 needs to
fail
or go to d and e next affair
okay so
same one is connected to f as
a parallel one sorry a series in series
and the d and f are also both together
connected in series
okay so if you see
so our top event is no current at point
a so now find out
d and e that is in series no current
or unit 7 fails that is also series
that's how we have put a plus symbol
inside the gate so that's our or gate
okay and
then it is if you think about both b and
d
four current at b suppose over enter d
so either three and four needs to fail
or b
needs to be okay
so these two
you can see
so d and e both are actually parallely
connected
as you can see here and
these are parallel connected so you can
uh
use canon's
gate here and we should move to the
so
another intermediate event we need three
and four
that also needs to fail okay
so all these two are connected to the d
in series
three and four all together in series
and t also in series to be but if you
think about
three and four individually they are
parallel to each other okay
so again the three and four
you know three and four needs to fill so
they are thoroughly connected to the
basic events it is nothing more to
develop here so
we need three fields that is parallelly
connected to the uh unit four
okay and similarly we will think about
the low current at b
so no current at b
means either unit one is to fail
or n is total okay so both of them are
in series
so we can use a plus symbol here or so
it's an
object okay
so no current at a and unit one
is to fail okay so why we are using a
rhombus symbol here
no current at a this symbol
shows the undeveloped event
so we don't know why
what's the actual reason for that
okay and then
we can do the same way for the
e the event at the 20
uh for point e we have the five and six
which are in parallel
but both five and six are in series both
needs to fail too
if you need uh e you used
so these two are in series okay
and then again you divide five and six
needs to pair
so both of them are in parallel
five and six are in parallel okay so
that's why
we're using here now and gate
and then if you see no current at c
we have two things here so one is
and the other one is only two needs to
carry
okay so no current at point a
is actually the end of this
story so we don't know why it's going to
fail
so that's why i'm putting this in a
comfort symbol
so it's an undeveloped event
so in this way we can make
tree for the whole system
so it's quite easy
you can draw all these things in using
this our diagon dot plate
so here we have been
to estimate the card sales for the top
event
so
we have the system this uh case study
also we have been explained previously
so we have the water source we have the
valve one that is connected to water
source
we have two ones file two and one three
they were
in parallel to the one
these are in parallel to each of each
one
[Music]
[Laughter]
so no water is delivered when needed
is is our top event
so we have questionable concepts at this
point
we have to draw actually the quantity
and then estimate the mileage
using the different parallel and serious
formulas
you want to try it first then i'll
discuss the question
the answer
so we have been adding the top down
boolean substitutions in this case
with minimum
[Music]
okay can anyone do that
okay let's see the solution for this so
we have to
table on the front tree for the whole
system
what has been given here okay
so our top event uh according to
according to the question no water is
delivered when needed
and then that's actually connected to
the p2 and the p1 branch but these are
actually now pumping systems
so no water from p to branch is
delivered
the water from the p1 branch is
delivered and both of them are connected
to the
top event using and gate
so we are putting our gate system here
okay and then
when we will be going to calculate these
values for the top event so we have to
use the parallel formula here and
again we are dividing the p1 and p2 from
this system
into different inputs
so here you can see in case of p2
what we have we have no water from the
b1 is delivered
and that's an intermediate event
and then b3 fails to remain open
that's a basic event and then b5 fails
to remain open
that's also another basic event
and then we have p2 does not function
that's another intermediate event okay
so we are keeping this intermediate
event because we have
something more after that to develop or
that is connected
okay for basic event when we are putting
in circle
so we do not have anything else to
develop
so if no water delivered from b1
and v3 fails b5 fails then p2 doesn't
function so the whole system will
function
uh in case of the p2
yeah p to branch the pumping system
station two
okay and when we are looking for no
water from b1 is delivered
you can see the
[Music]
that one is actually a buffer gate so we
have
uh when we are using the buffer gate is
actually
uh we need to transfer our input plates
to be occurred from that location okay
so so you can say uh like
uh you can attach a part of something
else or the part of
part of this intermediate event with
[Music]
some part from somewhere else so that's
why this is the buffer zone
so you can if you have a buffer zone you
can simply put
a triangle gate there
okay and then we do not have anything
else to develop
in these three cases uh the v1 v3 and v5
and then if you go to the p2 does not
function
why does this function we need to again
check
with different components either the
sensor
fails at the same signal or the
p2 fails to function or the ac fails
okay so these are three
so this chance to send signal is one
uh intermediate event and then p2 tends
to function with the basic nothing more
to develop
and then ac fails is
is our own development so we are putting
this in a rhombus symbol
um so we know by ac fails actually
and uh the sensor fails to send a signal
and that is actually connected to the
zombie
something else could be connected to the
uh to the signal
of the yeah to the sensor so that signal
can pass
but that's a joke so we are simply
putting the
gopro okay and then
uh from that intermediate event we have
two more events
uh these are the sensor pads and the hd
files
and these are the on developed event we
do not have more to
explore so the same way we can do for
the
p1 branch as well so this system
the whole process is given in this way
for the analysis of the whole system
uh but this is not the only way how we
can
estimate the concept
for the whole system you can
also use another way that has been also
given here
i think this one is the simple one but
we have an estimate of the
value for no water to deliver what is
needed
that have been estimated using different
uh
probability values of
[Music]
for the minimum concepts and we have
estimated the
value for the top event in this case
but this
[Laughter]
minimal constants here in this case so
our state one is the the t
so team is to calculated using e1 and e2
okay so here is the t the top
top event
and so what we need to do basically p
is equal to e1 and e2 which is the
formula for the parallel
uh connections okay
and similarly we can do for the
on will be in addition
because we have our gate here okay
so we estimated e1 value
e3 plus p3 plus p5 plus c4
and similarly we are estimating for e2
we have
e3 plus b4 plus b2 plus e5
okay as long as we have the e1 value and
e2 value
we can put these values here okay at the
top
for the top event and then we can
estimate the value for the p
so p will be this one the e one values
into e two values okay then you multiply
both the cases and we will be getting
something like this
e3 plus e3 v4 a3 v2 something like that
okay and we have to keep in mind which
has been given us
here so if if something comes like a3
into e3 or into e3 d3 so the
region will be e3 and similarly if
something comes like e3
plus e3 x the result will be e3
so you have to keep the formula like a
into a is equal to a
for a plus ax is equal to a
okay so the yellow
uh i mean pointed out uh
in this equation you can see the yellow
part so
here something called e3 into e3 and the
result is e3 okay
and there are some values like e3 plus
e3 into v4 something like that
so this also converts to e3 so all the
yellow values
okay that has been pointed out so
we will be converted into e3 at the next
stage okay
and the other values will be directly
coming here
okay so this is the value for the step
two
and similarly you go ahead with the step
three
okay and then step four and other app
you will be
getting your minimal cursor which is
this okay so once you use these
so you have been given with some values
for each components
for each objects in the system uh the
probability values and then simply put
the values
and you estimate your
um
probability for the document if you
needed but that's not the point here we
have to estimate
the concept here but that's the concept
[Music]
okay
okay let's move to that question number
three
[Music]
so here's the question number three
question number three is basically
we have been given it on ebay
the system is how
directions of input and output
uh so based on the system image we have
that is given below we can see that
there are
multiple scenarios in this case
which our output
can be acquired following the process
[Music]
okay so
we have been given with the ntbf
reliability for the system
we have to first estimate the minimal
constant and then finally estimate the
reliability of the whole system
so we have some form uh yeah one formula
for the reliability
use that formula but before going to do
that you simply
derive drawing a faulty
and then use the values
for the whole system how you can
[Music]
estimate
try to solve this out first and
show you the selections
[Music]
anyone can do this
so here
[Music]
so we have to keeping uh no output in
the system as our top event
so there are three and many
systems that is connected starting from
p
[Music]
so we can see bg is one
is so all are
connected to the output system
but some of them are yeah all of them
directly connected to the output system
in parallel okay
but the meantime
sorry all of them are actually connected
to the output
[Music]
so
[Laughter]
[Music]
also are in series to output okay
yeah but but these are yeah c and h
are in series for d and i are in series
to output
okay
[Music]
output okay but if you see bg
is in parallel to the ch
which is also parallel to pi
that is parallel to p e h and
p f h so that's why the own system
is connected to the output
gate but when we open it up
and we divide the inputs then all the
basic units will be connected to the
integrated events using our system
or gate okay so we are using the plus
sign here
and we have been given with the
entity f which is 600 okay
and then you have given me the time
which is container
okay so we have to estimate the code set
or following this so t will be
[Music]
and again ch c plus h
g plus i d plus h plus h
b plus e plus h okay so these are
from these intermediate events and again
all of the intermediates
again uh events will be multiplied to
each other so
e will be v plus g into c plus
h into d plus i into v plus a plus h
into b plus c plus h okay
and then we have to
reach the value of these
and you can see the minimal process of
this
but we have to generally
uh need to follow with the
total number of components in each
system okay so we have three components
here
and we have four components here so all
the three will be
grouped together all the four way will
be grouped together
okay and all the five components will be
put together
total concepts now we have to estimate
also the p
values so which is 1 minus exponential
of
the negative of total time
with the uh divided by
9 okay so
by following this formula we'll be
getting the value of
three five 0.15352 right
and then as i said we need to group
together all the three values and then
all the four values
and the four components and again all
the file components
this minimum class and
once we do that
[Music]
we simply use this formula
okay so what is the formula the total
number of components
into the failure probability the raise
to the power
uh the size of that group okay
so in this case we have five or
three component uh systems okay
so one two three
four and five okay so we have so that
so that the value will be five into
uh the probability that we got here
right into the probability of any
probability
that is to the power of the size of that
group which is three
okay and we have to do the same
for the for the four components and also
for the five components
once we group and we will be getting a
value of 0.019287 okay
and that's that's the probability of top
event
for the concept okay
and then once we get that so we can
estimate the uh
the system reliability which is one
minus
plus how the system works
[Music]
yeah this is all about the politi and
the system reliability
issues
i hope you all understood
do you have any questions regarding this
if you do not have any questions so
as dr mohsen sent one link
that you simply can please go through
the efs
and
thank you so much
[Music]
so
um